# Terraform Variables

### 1. Why Variables ?
- Input variables make Terraform configuration more flexible.
- Users can assign them to customize the configurations
- Think of variables as function arguments in a programming language.
> [!NOTE]
>
> - Unlike variables found in programming languages, Terraform input  variables DON'T CHANGE VALUES during the terrafom run.
> - Instead, they customize user infrastructure by assigning different value to the variables BEFORE execution begins
> - This way user does not need to edit configuration files manually

### 2. Declare variables

- You can use any identifier for the variable name, EXCEPT special key words.\
- They can be declared anywhere in the config file.
- It is a good practice to declare variables in a standalone file named `variables.tf`
- You can specify optional arguments in variable declarations
- If you set variables default values, No prompt will be shown at run.

EX: `variables.tf` file
```terraform
# Variables
variable "vpc_cidr_block" {
  default     = "10.0.0.0/16"
  description = "CIDR Block for the VPC"
  type        = string
}

variable "web_subnet" {
  default     = "10.0.1.0/24"
  description = "CIDR Block for the Web Subnet"
  type        = string
}
```

- Use them

EX: `main.tf` file
```terraform
resource "aws_vpc" "vpc1" {
  cidr_block = var.vpc_cidr_block
  tags = {
    Name = "VPC1"
  }
}

resource "aws_subnet" "web" {
  vpc_id     = aws_vpc.vpc1.id
  cidr_block = var.web_subnet
  availability_zone = "ca-central-1a"

  tags = {
    Name = "web-subnet"
  }
}
```

>[!NOTE]
>
> - Terraform concatenates all `.tf` files in the same Identity.
> - So the containt of `variables.tf` will be treated just as they were wwritten in `main.tf`.

### 3. Assign variable values
- Running `terraform apply` will prompt for required variable  values if NO DEFAULT value is set. \
- If default value is set, then NO promt when running `terraform plan` or `terraform apply`
- You can ovveride default values in CLI:
```bash
$ terraform plan -var="vpc_cidr_block=10.0.0.0/16" -var="web_subnet=10.0.1.0/24"
$ terraform apply -var="vpc_cidr_block=10.0.0.0/16" var="web_subnet=10.0.1.0/24"
```

### 4. Variable Definition Files
This are files with extensions `.tfvars` or `.tfvars.json`.\
It is more convenient to Set variables values in a variable definition file.

>[!WARNING]
>
> - These are not declaration files
> - They just allow to set variable values
> - Variables MUST be declared before in a `.tf` file.
> - These values take precendence over variable default values if Any

#### a. `terraform.tfvars`
- Terraform will AUTOMATICALLY load variables values defined in `terraform.tfvars` file.
- If the file name is not exactly **terraform.tfvars** (EX: `variables.tfvars`) you will need to specify it in the CLI.
```bash
terraform apply -var-file=variables.tfvars
```

EX:
```bash
$  cat variables.tf 
# Variables
variable "vpc_cidr_block" {
  default     = "10.0.0.0/16"
  description = "CIDR Block for the VPC"
  type        = string
}

variable "web_subnet" {
  default     = "10.0.1.0/24"
  description = "CIDR Block for the Web Subnet"
  type        = string

}

$  cat terraform.tfvars 
vpc_cidr_block = "11.0.0.0/16"
web_subnet = "11.0.1.0/24" 
```

### 5. Env variables
- You van also set variable value with an environment variable.
- This is NOT PERMANENT VALUE
- First export the value
- Then use it in terraform CLI

EX:

- Declare the variable
```tf
variable "subnet_zone" {
    default =  "ca-central-1a"
    description = "AZ"
    type = "string"
}
```
- Export its value
```bash
export TF_VAR_subnet_zone="ca-central-1b"
```
- Execute
```bash
terraform apply
```
- Note that this value is lost at the end of the cli session

### 6. Variables precedence

- Highest priority: -var and -var-file
- Next `terraform.tfvars`
- Lowest priority: **TF_VAR_***

### 7. Variable Interpolation
This is how to insert a variable value into a string

EX:
- Declare variable in `variables.tf`
```tf
variable "main_vpc_name"{

}
```
- Initialize it in `terraform.tfvars`
```tf
main_vpc_name = "Main VPC"
```
- Insert it value into a string (Interpolation) in `main.tf`
```tf
resource "aws_vpc" "vpc1" {
  cidr_block = var.vpc_cidr_block
  tags = {
    Name = "Production ${var.main_vpc_name}"
  }
}
```










